I'm Barry Rholz on the latest Masters in
Business podcast. Another banger. I have
Binky Chada. He's chief US strategist
for Deutsche Bank Securities.
Fascinating career and approach to uh
looking at markets. He's an economist
but essentially operates as a market
strategist. He's been fairly
constructive where he's supposed to be.
started the year 2025 with the 7,000
target on the S&P 500 brings in a lot of
different factors that makes his work so
interesting at Deutschbank securities.
Uh not just economics but FX equities
global perspective focused on US
equities. I thought this conversation
was absolutely fascinating and I think
you will also with no further ado my
interview of Deutsche Bank securities
Binky Chata
[music]
Binky Chhatta welcome to Bloomberg.
>> Thank you. So I have been looking
forward to this conversation for a long
time primarily because so many people
when I ask them who their mentors are
reference you. So you have a lot of
influence throughout the street.
>> That's very kind.
>> Um we'll we'll come back to that a
little later. Let let's start with your
career. You get a bachelor's in
mathematics and computer science from
Dennis and then a PhD in philosophy
focused on economics from Colombia. Is
that right?
>> A PhD in economics.
>> So, so um what was the career plan?
>> Uh the career plan was uh you know to
get a PhD in economics and study
development economics and alleviate
poverty and help the world. Mhm.
>> I went to graduate school and graduate
school, you know, so
>> kind of rings that out of you.
[laughter]
>> Exactly. Uh and
>> here's a whole lot of debt. Go go go
into go do some well somewhere.
>> Well, I mean, I think that development
economics is sort of builds on is not
necessarily core. You know, core is
micro and macro. Uh and I ended up
basically studying macro uh and then
went to basically work at the
International Monetary Fund in
>> first job right out of school. You were
there for a while. 17 years 17 years.
Yeah.
>> So what were the various positions you
had? I saw division chief of the euro
area and global markets.
>> Yeah. I live in chronological order. So
I started basically uh in the So the IMF
has a grat program just like any
investment bank. uh it's called the
economist program uh and uh my second
assignment was in research and I stayed
in research for the next few years. It
was the heyday of the IMF's research
department under Jacob Frankle and then
Michael Musa and we had all the world's
leading researchers visiting the IMF. Uh
and then the iron curtain came down uh
and the IMF suddenly had 30 new member
countries uh and uh we all got pulled
into working on various aspects of that.
So I worked on Bulgaria pretty much
full-time for for a year. So, so you're
at IMF for almost two decades. How did
that experience shape your view about
the economy and markets both
domestically and internationally?
>> Yeah. So a you know I started in the
research department but I went from
there to the Asian department and and
even while in the research department
like my participation in Bulgaria we
always at least I always uh you know a
was eager to participate in the IMF's
breadandbut work which is really country
work. So I remember going to Singapore
uh in my very early days. Uh Singapore
is you know a a obviously a small
country but because it's a small country
has issues especially from a development
strategy point of view that are sort of
key. You remember in the 1970s we used
to talk about the Knicks, you know, so I
mean I could talk for quite a while
about Singapore, but uh Singapore
started uh in the early 1970s with a 10
12% unemployment rate had low wage
export-led uh growth model. By 1979,
unemployment was 2%. both had been
strong and because of the peculiarities
and the politics of Singapore its ethnic
Chinese that moved out of Malaysia to
have an independent country when you
want to grow rapidly but you only have
2% unemployment uh you would end up uh
sort of violating the principle of what
you were form because you would need
basically lots of imported labor from uh
Malaysia and Indonesia and
>> a wild success story though Singapore's
economy has done really well, hasn't it?
>> So, so, so it it has because they made a
very concerted push at the time to move
basically towards higher value added
activities. Um, and the first paper I
ever wrote on a country was really
Singapore and it's about Singapore's
high wage policy. They announced an
increase in real labor costs or wages.
uh it's also sort of the retirement plan
of 6%
in 1979 to work through the system over
the next three years. Uh and and it was
wildly successful in basically you know
turning the economy into sort of a much
higher uh value added growth part. I
mean the finance was some of it uh but
it was you know the focus was more on
sort of high-tech manufacturing too.
>> So so today you're overseeing asset
allocation primarily for US-based
investors for Deutsche Bank. I know
you're global also.
>> Yes, that is true. My focus but partly
because I'm here and partly because the
US is the the most important and biggest
driver. Uh I've been our equity
strategist uh in two different stints
over periods. So that I I actually spent
most of my time basically on US equities
I would say.
>> So how do the lessons from Singapore and
Bulgaria or just global perspectives via
the IMF, how does that translate into
making better asset allocation decisions
for US investors? Uh I I I I I I think
those experiences are basically you know
things that sort of inform you about the
bigger picture and forces that are
ongoing that uh you know one may not
sort of see uh daytoday certainly not
dayto day uh but week to week but sort
of you know explains the direction in in
which things are going um and and I
think Singapore is sort of a good
example for I mean we started talking
about development economics which was uh
But but but it's about growth economics
and development economics and sort of
like you know does policy really have a
rule a role or should we just let the
free markets uh keep going?
>> Really really interesting. So after 17
years at the IMF what led you to
Deutsche Bank in ' 04?
>> Um so the IMF does not uh historically
never really spoke about exchange rates
uh because it's a market sensitive
variable. That was the thinking at the
time. But that didn't mean that the IMF
didn't spend a lot of energy working on
uh FX. We had an internal group that you
know some people in the market knew and
basically uh because we used to have a
dialogue with the markets. Uh there was
an opening basically in FX uh because
the FX strategist who had been around
for quite a while um he had moved on or
retired basically uh and and so they
asked me because they Deutschbank at the
time. Um, so the the strategist that I'm
referring to, his name is Mike
Rosenberg. Uh, he really did uh FX from
a top-down macro point of view.
>> Uh, and and it's hard to find people
like that. Uh, but I was at the IMF. I
was trained as an economist. Uh, and uh,
I had done plenty of work on FX. So
given given all your background in
economics, currency, um development,
>> uh how do you end up eventually as an
equity strategist for Deutsche Bank
because that seems like
>> sure it's it's adjacent to economic and
economists.
>> Yeah. So, so for a few years, uh, a a
last few years at the IMF, I was
actually part of a small group that was,
uh, responsible for developing and
maintaining basically a dialogue with
the markets. Um, I used to report to
Stanley Fischer who said he was tired of
reading in the newspaper on the way to
work that another country had gone under
and somebody should be having a
dialogue. And
>> at the time, where was Fiser? Uh it it
was Stanley Fischer uh he was the first
deputy managing director of the IMF uh
in the late 90s uh which is so this is
soon after the Asian financial crisis uh
a and then sort of you could argue that
the dominoes continued for the next few
years.
>> When when you reported to Stanley
Fischer was he at IMF or he had or had
he gone elsewhere? He he was at the IMF.
He was the first deputy managing
director which would be the counterpart
of being the CEO as opposed to being the
president of the IMF. So he ran the IMF
uh intellectually and otherwise uh and
it was a small group of us that you know
basically was a financial markets uh
dialogue with an open license to go out
there and tell us about any and
everything that you think that matters.
Yeah. So, so how do you transition from
head of uh foreign exchange research to
US chief US equity strategist?
>> Yeah. So, what what I was going to say
on that was simply that uh you know I
came to do FX strategy and research. Uh
but I really wanted to do things more
sort of close to the markets. Uh and
there was a simple practical issue which
is if you want to be near the markets
the center of liquidity was really 7:00
a.m. to 8:00 a.m. London time uh and and
and so you either live in London or uh
you know you find a US asset class. So I
found US equity. So as opposed to
covering FX in London you did equity in
the states
>> in the middle of the night. [laughter]
Okay. Um so, so since we're talking
about um
[clears throat] uh both equity and uh
foreign exchange, you've said we have
favorable investor positioning, a stable
dollar, investor animal spirits, and
robust buyback activity, lots of M&A uh
activity going on, and high business
confidence. Um that sounds like a fairly
bullish set of uh factors. uh it is a
very bullish set of factors. What I
would point out is that you know
equities historically are really about
the business cycle and that's why people
wrote pieces uh that are well known on
Wall Street. Uh they are from some time
ago that you know getting at what drives
the cycle and once upon a time the US
business cycle was just really the
housing cycle. There's a very famous
paper with that title. uh and and and
and you know if you fast forward from
there basically to to today we have a
very very very peculiar cycle is the way
I would put it. Um, we've had for the
last two almost 3 years now essentially
full employment in the labor market. And
what is at odds with the traditional
cycle is that when unemployment is low,
you're typically at the end of the cycle
and growth tends to be low. But for the
last two to three years, what we've had
is 4% approximately unemployment. But
GDP growth, especially underlying GDP
growth, running pretty steady at 3%
showing some signs of going even higher
basically. And what I would say is
historically that is very very rare. Uh
it's happened only 6% of the time if you
do it things on a quarterly basis, 6% of
the time since World War II. So uh and
and and it's no secret when those two
times were one was in the 1960s where I
would argue basically that's really the
takeoff that that's really the postworld
war recovery with a big lag because
people didn't know in the 50s what
exactly do because you could only
extrapolate the great you know the the
great depression and world war II so it
took a while uh uh but the 60s is really
the postworld war II recovery and the
second time that happened is more
recently
and and and and and everybody is
reminded of that now is the second half
of the 1990s.
But it goes without saying that both of
those periods u like the current period
have been very good basically for equity
markets if when unemployment when so
when you have a job but growth is strong
risk appetite is going to be high. I
think that's not uh you know surprising
uh and and and that's kind of almost
exactly where we are.
>> So you mentioned the 60s, you mentioned
the '9s. I have to ask you about the
2020s
>> which on the one hand and we'll circle
back to housing. I'm I'm fascinated by
that. But this feels like a little bit
of a to use your word peculiar cycle
>> because during the pandemic we had the
biggest a after 15 years of more or less
of monetary driven stimulus we had the
single biggest fiscal stimulus at least
as a percentage GDP
>> since World War II. Are we seeing that
boom, that boom lit, I don't know what
to call it, on a bit of a lag or has it
hit the economy and is beginning to
fade?
>> A a a from what I look at my reading
would be that this has been going on for
a while. It's been going on basically
through a variety of policies. Uh and
and and and so I don't think it's really
coming from the policies. I might even
go far enough to say that it's happening
despite the policies because we had a
massive hiccup this year. Uh and and it
has to do so you know one of the things
about uh a cycle and how vulnerable or
strong it is has to do with basically
you know household and corporate balance
sheets, right? And uh so in in in in
sort of a peculiar way uh we are blessed
in my view because of the global
financial crisis which created huge
deleveraging on on the household side.
Uh
and then we had COVID and you needed to
have your balance sheets right if you
were a a company uh and you needed to
basically get used to dealing with new
shocks and arguably we got another one
today. So, but what I would argue this
resilience is partly a blessing uh of
the two large shocks that we already had
>> and long before co most of corporate
America had refinanced all their
long-term debt very favorably. So
heading into this both households and
companies pretty well situated.
>> Exactly that. I I would agree completely
and and they remain so. uh I would say
right now outside of a few pockets you
don't really see any signs of uh excess.
So there's every reason to uh believe
that uh it continues and if you start
you know by looking just at like sort of
near-term economic forecasts as one idea
basically
>> everybody has a pickup in growth next
year. though
>> based on either uh Fed cuts or we'll
we'll talk about policy issues coming up
later.
>> Sure.
>> What I wanted to ask you about, you
mentioned housing is such a key factor
in cycles. Um is it a leading factor or
is it a benefit of a positive business
cycle? Because a lot of people kind of
grew up in the 2000s which felt very
backwards, right? the first time we had
ultra low rates in a few generations.
And so all the refinance and heliloc,
home equity, loan withdrawals, all that
stuff felt like it was the real estate
was driving the economy as opposed to
the economy benefiting real estate,
>> right? So what I would point out is that
the housing market today is a much
smaller part of the US economy than it
used to be. So if you go back to the
70s, you know, we're talking 6 7 8% of
GDP is housing.
>> Today it's like more like 2%. I
apologize that I don't know the exact
decimal point, but it's a fraction of
what it was. It's it's a it's it's a
fraction of what it was. Uh and and so
it's I mean, and we were just talking
about 3% GDP uh growth for the last two
two and a half years and housing's been
in the doldrums for quite a while.
We've been underbuilding single family
homes since the financial crisis. So
it's not a big contributor there. What
are we doing 750 800?
>> But but what is very peculiar about this
cycle is that um you know so there's
this very important fact when you think
about the 3% or 3% plus GDP growth
numbers which is you know that actually
uh and and and equities are about
cyclicality and cyclical variation. So
recessions are big events and recoveries
are big events. But what I think is is
is easily missed is that twothirds of
the US economy is actually stable growth
economy. It's like the old days of
consumer staples earnings where every
company analyst in the room would get
mad when I would say you don't need an
analyst to tell you you just need a
ruler as to what their earnings are
going to be because it was so
predictable. uh and in the same vein uh
twothirds of US GDP is really stable
growth GDP. Now it's not rip roaring
growth but it's two you know 2% growth.
Um what I the cycle comes from the
cyclical parts basically and that's a
little bit over 20% of GDP. So it's not
really that huge in but all the
cyclicality really comes from there and
when it gets going it's very powerful
and and if you think about what is the
cyclical parts I can go further
basically it would be number one is
consumer durables
it number two is corporate capex number
three is housing and number four is
structures and so what is extremely
unusual about this recovery from my
point of view is that stable growth's
doing what it's always doing uh is
mostly services uh I it's really that
you know if you look at the cyclical
part of US GDP yes it's growing but it's
at the bottom of the channel basically
so it actually has a lot of room to move
up to the upside like 10 15% what I'm
saying
>> does that include all of the tech
investments and AI and data centers that
seem to be just fullon booming
>> yeah so So the tech investment wouldn't
be in here. I mean if you look at capex
if you take out the AI part it's it's on
the soft side but so you can take as I
always say you can take you know a
bearish view on that which is it's all
coming from this one part or you can
take a bullish part that the other
part's going to start to happen. So, and
here what I would get is say is that
it's hard to put your finger on exactly
what the issue is, but there's a lot of
overlaps in the different aspects of
what's going on. So, I just gave you the
list of the four parts that uh are not
doing great.
>> All of which seems to be somewhat
interest rate sensitive. And I know
you're looking for a few more cuts over
the next year or so.
>> Sure.
>> Could is that what's going to light the
next leg, start the next leg moving
higher?
>> I mean, I think interest rates are
important for housing uh
>> and durables, right? You buy a house,
you fill it with furniture and
appliances and a car.
>> Sure. uh um but what I would say is I
don't think that uh interest rates are
absolutely the key because capex we were
just talking about that a little bit
earlier about corporate balance sheets
um since the 1970s what corporate
America learned is that you don't spend
beyond your means. I would say most
capex especially for S&P 500 companies
is coming from internally generated cash
flow and and if you look basically at
the three uses of cash flow you know
dividends uh capex and buybacks and and
you take their total spending relative
to their total cash flow it's been this
side of 100%
forever
>> which sounds sounds pretty reasonable
>> exactly and so I don't think that the
interest rates going to make play such a
big deal for corporates. Um, you could
even argue, I mean, for a long time it
was like if interest rates go up after
the global financial crisis, corporates
are going to get killed. It was the
reverse and their earnings went up.
>> Just a Wall Street Journal column today,
why why are corporate bonds on fire?
Because they seem like such a safe bet.
>> Uh, that is exactly right. And there's
been, you know, market mechanisms that
have in many cases actually improved the
credit quality. Uh so when we look at
indices you want to be careful because
they're not controlling for the
historical credit quality. I mean S&P
500 is different because it's about
earnings and your earnings power but in
terms of uh credit quality um you know a
lot of the indices I mean the the the
current composition is better than it
used to be. Now we at a certain stage in
the cycle so we've had two two and a
half years basically of you know a fully
employed labor force and strong growth.
Uh but there's been if you think about
those two and a half years uh 2023 is
you know everybody's waiting for a
recession uh and this continues I call
that period the rolling V's and we're
kind of going through a similar version
of the same thing right now
>> meaning rolling uh decreases sectoral
recessions that quickly
>> so so actually what I call it when I say
the rolling V's what I mean is that
basically if you look back to late 2022
too. And you looked at, you know, the
the forward forecast that was in the
macro consensus, it was growth is here.
Growth next quarter is going to be
lower. In two quarters, we'll be in a
recession and then of course we'll have
a recovery. Uh and and and so if you
look at four or five a so when the
recession didn't come, what the macro
consensus did is simply rolled it
forward. They said, "No, we are right
just wrong on timing." And then when
that didn't happen, we went and rolled
it forward. And and I mean I have this
chart uh it's a little old now uh but I
on the same chart as you see the rolling
V's you look at the actual data when it
came in and there's you know we like way
above uh closer to 3% than people are
forecasting a recession
and and so
>> and those those recession forecasts we
heard those in 21 22 23 like it they
kept doubling down and got it wrong.
>> Yeah. So it's 2023 and then the early
part of 2024. So Deutschbank was and I
don't mean to single out our economists
here but who are excellent. Uh but they
they were some of the earliest on the
street of a recession is going to happen
down the road. Uh they didn't give up
their recession call I believe till the
first quarter of 2024. And and and so
from a company point of view if you were
listening to companies and and you know
analysts ask on earnings calls why
aren't you spending? They're like, "No,
there is a recession coming." Uh, and
the recession is coming. So, all through
2023, corporate America just waited for
the recession.
>> That that never came. Really quite
>> fast. Early 24 and they began to wait
for the election. Uh, we had the
election, everybody got very very
optimistic, very very constructive. We
got liberation day. I think where we are
now is those two years basically of a
waiting created pentup demand is a
shortcut way of saying what I'm trying
to get at.
>> Uh and and has also you know led to the
approach or strategy if you want to call
it that. Um that we just need to deal
with it then get on with it. Uh and
we're not waiting anymore. Uh I and and
and so we are where we are. where we're
having this strong growth, but it's
really the cyclical borrows of the US,
you know, are either erratic and noisy
or at the bottom of the channel. So, not
exactly depressed and falling out of the
channel or going into recession, but
growing very modestly. That is the
basically the challenge that it creates
for equity strategy or investment.
>> Really, really, really fascinating. So,
so before we get into what's going on
today in more detail, I want to talk a
little bit about your role at Deutsche
Bank. You've led US equity and global
strategy for a couple of decades now. Um
how has your team how has the team's
process evolved? What do you think of in
terms of tools and quantitative analysis
as well as a broad global macro
overview? What what drives uh your
decision-m?
>> Sure. I mean at the simplest level it's
to figure out uh you know where the
equity market is going to go. Mhm. Uh
>> that's all I need to do. Once you figure
that out, you're you're golden.
>> It we're pretty humble about that
pursuit, but I would say that is the
number one objective and pursuit. And uh
what we do is basically we uh have
developed over time basically a whole
set of frameworks. They're not all uh u
you know a I mean they're meant to be
non-over overlapping frameworks and
>> quantitative or or qualitative are they
all models or is there some
>> they are quantitative frameworks you
could call some of them models uh so the
I I would say the most important thing
for equities in again my very humble
opinion is what's happening with
earnings and so you need to have a good
framework basically for earnings if you
could get earnings right I mean and you
need to do that well in advance of the
actual delivery uh you know you you will
know what the markets are going to do
basically. So what we did uh and we
revisit, revise, uh revamp uh redo,
throw out, whatever you want to call it.
Um but at the moment basically what we
have is we take a whole group of stocks
and sectors. Um we divide it up our way.
So there's mega cap growth in tech. come
in and that you know needs to include
Visa and Mastercard because it's they're
not tech companies but they behave very
very similarly in terms of their revenue
streams. So you can think about it as
basically a trend and cycle framework
for each of the groups and the question
the the trend is you know what has
basically been prevailing for quite a
while and then the question is what
drives the cycle in those. So if we take
mega cap growth in tech for example, you
would have the US dollar um and and and
for some parts you could be looking
basically for you know a a a very
specific uh things that matter which
you're not going to pick up. So for
example you know for materials I because
of the way US materials is structured
into two parts I for chemicals you need
basically a chemicals deflator which is
not something that most people tend to
look at. So there's idiosyncratic but
it's cycle and trend in what drives
basically the cycle it would be you know
ISM manufacturing the US dollar. Um, ISM
manufacturing is an interesting one
because that's historically the one
thing that explained S&P 500 earnings
extremely well and that's kind of like
all you needed to know.
>> Still today, does it still have that?
>> It's basically for the last three years,
it hasn't been the case. Uh, and and and
why it's simply because of mega cap
growth in tech. If you take the S&P 500,
you break up its earnings into mega cap
growth in tech and everyone else, you'll
see that everyone else is still
currently aligned with the ISM
manufacturing. ISM manufacturing's been
in a funk for three plus years now. Uh
and and so we haven't had growth. So I
kind of hinted earlier you can look at
the current you know sort of context in
a bearish way that is all the growth is
coming from 90% of S&P 500 earnings
growth has come from mega cap growth in
tech uh or you could take the view going
forward that everybody else is going to
recover that's the camp that we are in
because
>> that everyone else will be catching up
to tech events
>> exactly unless their earnings are
completely aligned with the ISM
manufacturing in the US ISM
manufacturing is basically and and
that's historically the case for the
entire index is earnings. Uh we've been
in a funk for three plus years. We ISM
manufacturing has been between 46 and
50. So you know it's something that
we've never seen historically. So if you
ask why are we sitting here? Uh well
first thing to note is that if you know
things were bad then we should have been
going down. We shouldn't be sitting in
mildly contractionary. 50 is the
dividing point above 50
>> 50 is the dividing point but I mean I
think the fair or I mean conceptually
it's the and intellectually it's meant
to be the dividing point but this is
still slightly positive growth even
below 50 to get to negative growth you
have to go quite a bit lower and I would
argue in the first instance it was
basically just the hangover from the
pandemic so we remember that as we came
out you know we had basically massive
spending on goods and that in some way
involves manufacturing uh a and and and
then we had basically the slowdown and
the rotation.
>> Reminds me a little bit of what took
place in the runup to Y2K in 2000. You
had all this tech spending pulled
forward and then it was soft for a year
or two.
>> Right. Right. Uh a a a and and it's been
followed basically by a whole set of
things. Uh number two on so on the
hangover I would say you know I don't
think a hangover's killed anybody. So a
hangover is holding time basically and
it would naturally basically uh you know
a a a pass. Uh but then in early uh uh
2022 we got the Russian invasion of
Ukraine. We had $120 oil. And if you
look at oil prices today, what we've had
is basically we've gone from 120 to in
round numbers 60. But it's taken three
years to get there. and and and what the
three years to get there means is that
energy earnings have on a year-on-year
basis have been negative basically or
contracting for three years now. The
good news is that we are much closer now
to basically what I would think of as
fair value for oil prices. It's actually
a little bit higher. Uh it's not a
tradable difference right now, but fair
value is probably 64 $65.
uh and and and and so you know this drag
should basically stop soon. Uh even
though for the third quarter we're still
looking for 15% down. So energy
>> in energy
>> in energy earnings. So this is just
mostly oil prices and energy vertical is
important basically for various parts of
manufacturing. Then we have basically
idiosyncratic issues in autos and
Chinese autos in particular. And of
course, last but not least, we have the
tariffs this year, which impacts
manufacturing.
>> We're going to talk more about tariffs
shortly. I'm kind of fascinated because
I'm hearing in your laying out where we
are today a lot of different voices and
at a shop like Deutsche Bank Securities
you have to have so many different
perspectives opinions from different
quarters from the economists from the FX
traders from everybody. How do you
navigate and organize all of these
different perspectives some of which may
be in conflict with others?
>> Sure. Uh I wouldn't describe it as
conflict. I mean we are encouraged to
have our own different views.
>> A broad dispersion of views. Is that a
fat?
>> Absolutely. So what I was always told by
uh our head of research David Fogerts
Landau uh
you know so if I ask you at the end of
the year why did you get your S&P 500
call wrong you're not to tell me that
you
>> the economist [laughter] was bearish
right that doesn't work.
>> So you are responsible for everything
that goes into your view uh and and so
we discuss and debate. Uh so as far as
the research aspect of it is concerned
in terms of the strategists across all
asset classes and economists we have a
regular meeting. We just had one this
morning actually. Uh
>> so let me ask you a question. You
mentioned ISM.
>> What leading indicators do you put the
most amount of weight on and what
indicators do you think aren't all that
important for forecasting the economic
and or market cycle? Uh so we always
start with our economist forecast and we
always ask the question of does this
make sense to us? Does this make sense
to you know the way uh various um a a
you know economic data are behaving? So
I mean if you think about the US so and
2023 when everybody's calling for a
recession there was this annoying fact
which was that [laughter]
if [clears throat] you simply said okay
I just landed here so you know okay
we're talking about the US potentially
going into a recession you know let me
start by looking at GDP and you would
find that near 70% of US GDP in real
terms comes from personal consumption
spending everybody knows that. So why
don't we just draw a chart of it? Uh and
and and because I come from a a a
relatively volatile asset class, I don't
do it in growth rate terms. I just plot
the level. You rather take logs because
of we all know why we should take logs
and then I draw channels around it. And
if you look at real personal cons, you
know, personal consumption spending in
the US for the five years before the
pandemic, we are in this tight channel
growing steadily at 2 and a half% a
year. Pandemic collapse, recovery of PCE
back magically into exactly the same
channel. And so this is uh 21 and and
the same applies during 22 when the Fed
is hiking aggressively, right? and
personal spending just continues in the
middle of the channel and and it was
almost like there's nothing to see here,
>> right? Well, we had three uh three
handle on unemployment. Wages were
actually rising as fast almost as as
fast as inflation other than that 9%
peak. Um why wouldn't the economy and
market do well?
>> And and just
>> he says with perfect hindsight
>> to to [laughter] fast forward to this
morning, where is BCE? It's right in the
middle of the channel. I would say if
you you know there is a couple of
different variations of looking at it
and in the headline numbers actually at
the top of the channel and moving along
and and you know we did have some
slowing in the first quarter uh a but it
was at the risk of going way out of the
channel and it just sort of moderated
and went flat and and and since it got
back to the channel so it's the same
thing that's why
>> and PC is important because that's a key
indicator the Fed looks
>> US GDP yeah absolutely I think that's
Jerome Pal's favorite uh data point.
>> Yeah. So he focuses more on the
inflation in there. So I'm talking about
really the real volume or that the
measure that we have which is in in in
real terms. I'm just saying I I if
that's 70% of GDP and that's growing
steadily and it's been doing so we we're
in the same place that we've been in for
10 years growing in uh you know at what
I would describe as a 2 and a half%
trend rate. So
>> So that that sounds pretty bullish. I'm
going to ask you in a little bit about
cautious uh issues and risks. We'll
circle back to that.
>> But given the relative strength of the
US over the past 10 to 15 years and the
fact that you've just gotten back from
Asia and Europe before that, how do you
look at the rest of the global economy?
What's happening in Asia? What's
happening in developed exus Europe and
and elsewhere?
>> Absolutely. So, you know, there's a
chart that I'm going to draw for you or
really two charts. Um, and and and what
I would say I kind of already described
the US chart, which is, you know, a a a
a steady trend channel growth of 2 and a
half% before the pandemic, steady, you
know, 2 and a half% growth since then.
Uh, a a a if you look at the rest of the
world, the trend rates are different. So
if you use Europe as an example, but the
same applies basically to various other
regions, we're growing steadily before
the pandemic at sort of a 2% rate. Then
we had the pandemic collapse and just
like the US recovering back basically to
the trend line, but that was in the
first quarter of 2022. So it is really
Russia Ukraine that then basically
arrested that recovery back the trend
and and and basically activity in Europe
um you know it's essentially gone
sideways to very slightly up in the
decimal points I would say uh and and
and so there's a very large gap
basically relative to trend and so what
I would argue is that you know there was
nothing exceptional happening in the US
in absolute terms it was really in
relative terms because the rest of the
world wasn't really growing. I'm using
Europe as an example. You know, China,
Japan slightly different. But I I think
the European example is sort of key and
and and so if you think about things
like FX and the US dollar, I mean, we US
dollar typically does long multi-year
cycles. We were sitting at the top of
the band for three years. So I think
about it as a multi-year trade or trend
basically waiting for a catalyst and
waiting for the catalyst is just you
know is the rest of the world going to
start to grow and in the case of Europe
um you know what we had basically so we
went long European equities on the first
Monday of the year all the credit goes
to my colleague European equity
strategist Maxier um
>> that's a great great call uh a it it was
just the view that everybody was short
Europe, everybody's going to cover their
shorts or at least some people are going
to cover their shorts going into the
election given the platforms uh which
they began to do and after they covered
their shorts it became a question of you
know from a fundamental point of view
you know is this going to happen um now
in terms of policy is this going to
happen so if you look back for the last
few years uh you know as a policy maker
you want to do something about is um but
maybe that shock was already gone and
and you're going to start growing anyway
and and and so now you have that plus a
a a whole set of additional you know
incentives to basically to spend uh
infrastructure then there's the defense
issue so I would argue it happens and
>> and is this early days in in the um
resurrection of European equities or is
this a oneyear one time?
>> It depends on whether you believe the
growth will happen and sustain. I'm in
that camp. So I I I would argue it's
still very early days. And so we are
actually from a positioning point of
view, we overweight the US, which is
what we've been talking about, but we
also overweight Europe. Overweight
Europe, not because I'm expecting it to
match the US in performance through
Europe.
>> Just doing so much better than it used
to. But but but but I think it's
important to keep in mind that so far we
have very little evidence that Europe is
actually growing. Uh and and if anything
over the last few weeks the data has
kind of disappointed. Um it doesn't
negate what is likely to come. Um and
and then you look at the Europe I mean
you know getting disappointment. uh we
we we moved up because Europe might grow
uh and and and you know it hasn't but
you know we have trouble getting below
so the market is you know very much I
would say you know concerned that the
growth actually happens so I'm I'm
staying overweight because there you
have to get in before it happens and
given the gap basically in the level of
activity in the level of earnings
relative to trend signs um you know
you you you could gap up at some point
uh and and so it's not just about
tomorrow's earnings numbers. So we start
getting positive growth news out of
Europe. Uh
>> all bets are off at that point.
>> Exactly. At that point it's already half
of it's already happened. So
>> wow. So let's talk a little bit about uh
US economic growth. We we earlier
discussed um Asia and Europe. Uh you
have said we have resilient corporate
earnings uh with with forecasts that are
in the low double digits, robust risk
appetite and major buybacks that are
likely to rise as earnings rise. What's
not to like about the US market?
>> Uh not too much I would say. Um I think
that you know going back to what I said
earlier 2023 we're waiting for the
recession 2024 waiting for the election
there's a lot basically of demand uh
pent up demand uh that for variety of
activities
>> you're talking pre20 November 2024 so
the prior year
>> right but what I'm saying is that the
while you know the backdrop and the
context has been very good it's been
very strong. It hasn't really been there
hasn't really been buy into it because
there's been something massive to worry
about like a recession in 2023. Uh a and
and so I would argue after the
liberation day shock. So I would say
around the election last year there was
a lot of buy into a very optimistic
take. So we spend one of our frameworks
that we spend a lot of energy on is our
equity positioning framework. uh and and
if you look at where we are today and
that's what I'm saying there's limited
buy in is my positioning measure it's a
zcore measure so typically between plus
minus one it's sitting at plus.5 but
what I would point out so market's
clearly overweight
>> that entire overweight characterization
is coming from the positioning of
systematic strategies who are not
following or thinking about fundamentals
if you think about the dis
>> when we say systematic like it's
quantitative, it's trend based, it's
earnings growth based.
>> So I have three in particular in mind.
So there's the V control, there's the
CTAs and then there's risk parity funds.
>> CTAs meaning mostly trend following
commodities things like that.
>> Exactly. uh so it's about trend involve
uh uh is a good summary of each of the
three basically I mean and if you look
at systematic strategies positioning you
know it's hard to come up with an
intuitive simple measure of what is the
trend that that that's what a lot of
that exercise is about uh but the other
part is very easy which is basically v
you can use any measure of v that you
like and and and and it explains
basically their positioning so we had
liberation day collapse. Uh we had April
the 9th when the cause of the volatility
basically diminished or went down and so
we had the fastest recovery from a wall
shock ever. Um and and and but there's
been very limited buyin I would say from
discretionary investors who are actually
sitting at neutral. Discretionary is as
opposed to systematic but discretionary
you want to think about as fundamentals
based investor. Let's take that apart
because that's kind of fascinating
because on the one hand
>> um there's been a bubble in bubble
forecasts. That's an old joke. We've
heard that,
>> you know, for decades. But really, it
seems like everybody is saying, "Oh,
there's an AI bubble. There's a market
concentration bubble." And the the
market seems to not care and it just
keeps powering itself higher. Let let's
talk about the policy issues you just
raised. So despite Trump won with some
tariffs that were I don't know about
10%.
>> And I'm tariff man. It's the most
beautiful word in the dictionary.
Despite all of that, a failure of
imagination or all on all our parts.
>> April 2nd shocked everybody with 100%
tariffs.
>> I don't think anybody imagined it. And
we had that very rapid selloff over the
next week.
>> Then the 90-day pause and markets took
off.
But at the end of the 90-day pause,
markets just kind of kept going.
>> Kept going. Yeah. H
>> how do you how do you put this policy
into context? And when you say there's
not buy in from the discretionary part
of the equity markets, somebody's
buying. Is it just systematic or
>> So it's systematic strategies. And I
would say, you know, we are sitting here
in the first week of October. So if you
think about September and and and just
the very very steady steep
>> huge huge gains in September.
>> So so what we got in September is
basically uh big inflows we
>> right and I want to say Q3 2025 was like
the seventh best quarter going back to
World War II some crazy number like
that. Uh a a so last month we had the
highest inflow into bonds and equities
as a group uh ever uh trillion dollars
into in just one month
>> do you pay attention or care about the
$7 trillion in money market funds or is
that
>> you know a a a so I think that's partly
a red herring in the sense that
basically it is a reallocation away from
bank deposits. So if you take the sum of
money market funds and c and cash
deposits
>> the line's kind of going up but it's
going up in line with its trend because
cash holdings are going up. So the two
things are just sort of a wash
>> because some people are have been
claiming that is the next source of fuel
for equities.
I'm in your camp. I think that money
mostly came from low yielding bonds or
checking and savings accounts. I I think
it's like very important to keep in mind
that we're having a boom in inflows
across all asset classes really
>> and it's been going on for two years if
not longer and and and you know as to
the question of why we're having this
boom our take is basically that so you
have to start historically first so that
we're talking about you know how
>> things changed relative to history so a
a the pattern was that US households
would put about 50% of the new savings.
So you get a paycheck, you spend, some
is left in the bank account and then you
allocate basically some of it. Uh but
historically about half of all household
savings um it would stay in cash, half
would basically go into financial
assets. And so if you think about the
cash holdings of households, it's very
very steady clear trend line. What the
pandemic did partly because people spent
less, partly because they were getting
checks in the mail or directly deposited
in their bank accounts, the their cash
holdings went way way up relative to
trend. We then had a period where
because you just overallocated relative
to trend uh a a a period of cash going
sideways. So that all new savings 100%
of it was going into financial assets
and into all financial assets. It's not
just I mean bonds were actually the
bigger beneficiary than equities believe
it or not. Most people think it's
equities first. Uh
>> but it's across so crypto you know
commodity funds you name it. uh a a a
but but but it goes all the way back to
the pandemic and and and and and it's
not done yet is the way I would put it.
>> Wow. So So you were talking about trade
earlier. One of the comments you made
really uh I found fascinating.
Markets often price in trade deal hopes
early. Are we um over discounting the
impact of tariffs or are markets being
too optimistic or h how do you
contextualize
you know we've been waiting to hear
about all these tariff deals we really
haven't heard I think we have one with
the UK
>> that's kind of kind of it and Japan
>> right
>> um
are are markets not paying enough
attention to tariffs or are markets
saying hey president lost uh at the
Court of Trade. He lost at the Court of
Appeals. Maybe he's going to lose at the
Supreme Court. How how are we looking at
tariffs?
>> So So the the a a So first, you know, uh
a a a a confession which is basically
after April the 2nd, you know, if you
thought through the impact of the
announced tariffs, you're going to come
to a very very negative conclusion,
right?
>> And that's what we did. And so we
lowered our numbers. We always built in
that there would be what we call a
relent on policies. It's just like trade
war 1.0. When the market is up, you
know, he would escalate. When the market
was down, he would deescalate.
>> People have called that I I heard a
couple of options traders call that the
Trump collar.
>> The Trump collar.
>> Unlike the POW put, this is the Trump
collar, right? At when markets are high,
he's emboldened. When they're low, all
right, we're going to pause this and let
the dust
>> Exactly. Exactly. A a a that's kind of,
you know, where we were and and so the
call was that we would go a lot higher,
but a lot less than we had originally
thought, basically. Um and and we have
since basically raised both our earnings
numbers and our target. I
>> What's your S&P 500 to 7,000?
>> So on on January 1st, it was 7,000 and
today it's again back to 7,000. lower
the tariffs and then raised it again
>> and then raised it in two steps. But
your question on uh you know uh are the
tariffs having an impact? What I would
say is that um there's sort of different
dimensions. So this is kind of a big
question because it impacts everything.
So first is growth. We kind of spoke
about that a little bit. Uh macro
growth. Um and and and what I would say
is that so far there is I mean the the
the logical and intellectual case for a
slowing because of very high tariffs or
a new tax uh right you know is
impossible to refute and I'm not
refuting it but I'm just saying there's
like no evidence of that because what
other things are basically dominating.
So I talked about the consumers are
doing what they've always been doing
etc. uh a but if you look at macro
growth I also said that what we're going
through is a mini version of 2023
because everybody took a negative view
that negativity is extremely important
part of the positivity in terms of the
price action because
>> markets climb a wall of worry right
>> exactly and and and and you know are
equities going to go down if somebody
raises their GDP growth numbers or their
earnings numbers so it's so that
negativity is a positive force for now
um are economists. So Matt Lzetti has a
2.8% GDP growth number for the third
quarter. That's, you know, the highest
numbers I've ever seen from him.
>> Atlanta GDP now is even higher.
>> Close to four uh before the data started
to disappear a a and and and so you know
a number one no sign of it in terms of
growth if you do and think about in
terms of earnings. So there should have
been a big impact in the second quarter.
Earnings growth in the second quarter
actually picked up from where it was in
the first quarter. So even the sign is
wrong. It's going in the other
direction. Um a a number three
qualitative read on earnings which I
would argue is more important than just
the numbers and companies just basically
saying that yes this is negative shock.
Yes, it's a big deal, but it's, you
know, it's not uh way out of basically
the realm of in many cases even for
machinery companies [laughter]
within the realm of you know our
guidance range. So yes, it's negative
but it's not having such a huge impact
and and and that the impacts are
basically you know modest and manageable
and there's a level at which you know
you can think about so we the numbers
what are the numbers uh a a so the
effective tariff rate defined as
basically tariff revenue on the
treasury's website divided by the value
of imported goods um it was kind of
stuck at 10 11% and maybe it's a little
bit higher right now. So the market's
working with something like 15. So we
still have a ways to basically get
there. Um and the underlying thesis has
been basically that if there's a problem
you will get relent exemptions. So
there's a lot of exemptions uh and and
and that's part of the whole thing. The
other dimension of course is inflation.
>> So let's talk about that.
>> Yeah. Yeah. I you know I did it already
happen or is it still to come? One
simple way I mean there's [laughter]
there's no way to answer the question
with 100% certainty but what I would say
is that if I take a look at core goods
prices or core CPI if you want uh and
and what you will see is that the norm
is for goods prices to be deflating. We
have the post pandemic 10% increases the
chart of the price level right
we jump up by 10 11% uh in a relatively
short period of time and then that's
done with and we start disinflating at
the same historical trend rate is a very
modest mild deflation and what we've had
over the last 3 months is a clear
increase up so some impact of the
tariffs has already happened question is
how much uh and and and I would say
relative to the trend line, core goods
prices are probably one one and a
quarter% higher than they would have
been uh if we had just continued
basically down that trend line and and
and so how to basically you know
handicap that one one and a quarter% we
have inhouse from our rate strategist a
bottomup measure basically of the direct
impact of tariffs. So you go SIC code by
SIC code, you add it up and then you
calculate and they calculate two two and
a half percent. So simple point I would
make is it looks like half of the direct
impact already happened and if half of
it you know it wasn't so bad. How much
should we fear the second half?
>> So that raises a fascinating question.
You're very constructive about
additional Federal Reserve rate cuts
this year and next year. And the people
who are a little bearish on that are
saying, "Hey, tariffs are going to be
very inflationary. We we're seeing a
reaceleration. This isn't a noisy blip,
but it's a start of something worse.
We're going to end up at four, four and
a half, 5% inflation, which would put
the Fed on hold." Walk us through your
thinking on how many more rate cuts this
year and next year. It sounds like
you've already given the game away cuz
>> No, no, actually, actually, you know, I
I'm not counting on rate cuts and I
would argue the rate cuts are, you know,
much more of a sideeshow basically for
earnings. Uh we do have
>> we're so hyperfocused on them. At least
the media
>> is on it's, you know, everybody is if we
get these rate cuts, it'll unfreeze the
housing market. It'll do all these great
things. No, I mean for the to unfreeze
the housing market, you need longer end
yields to basically go down
>> which have not happened yet.
>> They are pretty much on the low side, I
would argue, relative to so we have a
house view for the 10year by year end
that's closer to 4 and a half. So 445.
[snorts]
>> So we what does that mean for mortgage
rates? Are we going to see a five handle
on [clears throat] mortgage rates?
>> Spreads are pretty wide. So there is
room if uh and and spreads depend on
volatility. rates volatility's been
coming down quite a lot because you know
the a brokers need to hedge basically
the interest rate risk while it's
outstanding. So so I think it's
supportive uh but but but I I I'm not
foreseeing any big decline in interest
rates.
>> So maybe another cut this year, one or
two more next year.
>> It's also I mean we don't have the data
anymore so it's going to be [laughter]
>> well there's that.
>> Uh it who needs data? But but but I
wouldn't be surprised if the Fed misses
one of those two meetings in terms of
the rate cuts and pushes it out. I mean
this is sort of more a you know
finetuning type exercise I would argue.
>> Um I mean if the Atlanta Fed GDP is
right and it's been pretty right for
several years obviously not to all the
decimals but it was giving you some you
know but that kind of growth I mean do
we really need lower interest rates? So,
let me ask the Jerome Pal question. Um,
we're seeing the labor market sort of
soften even though we're fairly close to
to, you know, as low as unemployment
gets. At the same time, there there's
shortage of workers. Um, 2025 may be the
first year in history where US
population actually declines.
>> Uh, less immigration, more deportations,
a whole lot of other policy issues that
are affecting that. H how do you think
about the labor market here and what
does that mean for corporate earnings?
What does it mean for uh interest rate
policy?
>> Yeah, I I I I think we have a relatively
fully employed labor force and and our
baseline view basically sees you know if
you ignore the decimals a little bit of
bounce here and there not really you
know changing very much. So the question
becomes you know who's going to produce
that three and 4% GDP. So it it it was
pretty bearish take uh when we got the
revisions basically to the payrolls
numbers the benchmark revision but you
know if you're not changing the GDP
numbers and you just increase the level
of productivity basically commenurately
>> it's not it's not as much of a negative
as it looks at first blush
>> exactly
>> right don't I I know a lot of economists
who look at growth as productivity plus
inflation fair assessment
>> yeah a a I would say productivity plus
employment then to get to the nominal
part you would add inflation.
>> Uh and and and so a a I mean if you
think about so we talked a little bit
about you know the the parallels between
today and the 1960s and the the second
half of the 1990s uh that's the two
periods since World War II where we had
basically productivity growing at three
three and a half%. It for a sustained
period of time normally it grows at 1.4
for 1.5%.
>> What What's the old line? Um I I forget
who I'm stealing this from. Uh
productivity gains are seen everywhere
except the productivity data. [laughter]
>> So that's because you know it's
calculated as a residual, right? So
first you have to estimate GDP. Then you
have the first revision, second
revision, third revision a a then you
have to estimate what we were just
talking about which is the labor input
which is revised and then re-revised and
benchmark and then what's left over is
productivity. Uh but what I would argue
is that if you look at a simple chart of
reported productivity in the non-farm
business sector, you know, you'll see
this a a a growing in a trend channel of
1.4%. 4% uh and and and basically what
we've had over the last couple years is
we went way above the channel basically.
Uh and and so
>> post pandemic
>> post that is right. Uh so we got a
pandemic jump then a slowdown back into
the channel and and and so over the last
two years uh is what I'm saying. So
officially you know yes the the the
immigration issue but officially
unemployment it's only been 4% was even
lower. So it was a tight historically a
tight labor market has been a necessary
condition for getting those productivity
booms like we had in the 1960s and and
and in the second half of the '90s and
we've had a tight labor market for
several years right now.
>> Very very interesting. One of the things
I'm so fascinated about your work is
that you're not just, you know, a
one-way bull. You start the year as one
of the most bullish forecasts for the
S&P 500, but you're constantly bringing
up the various macro risks investors
face.
>> That sort of um full view and and not
being uh so so um uh just mindlessly
bullish is kind of fascinating. So, so
let's talk about some of the risks that
that you've been writing about and
discussing. uh have to start with froth
uh in AI and and capital spending. Sure.
How do you respond to uh charges that
this market has become frothy?
>> A what I would say is basically that uh
you know we do see signs basically of
rampant speculation but I would say so
far it's only in basically relatively
well- definfined pockets. So AI, Bitcoin
hit 125,000 over the weekend.
>> So I on AI, I would say it's, you know,
what some companies and some deals are
doing, you could put in that bucket, but
I mean the stocks are not necessarily
doing that. Uh and so I would argue that
we are still sort of in the early
stages. I would say um there's a lot of
focus on the retail investor. Now the
question I would ask about the retail
investor is you know I when you look at
measures of retail uh uh participation
or retail activity you know it's easy to
sort of exaggerate relative to their own
history.
I mean we don't have a history of retail
particip participation in US equities
since the '9s. So it's been more
episodic basically
>> and so there is a tendency to put it in
that light that this is an episode but I
mean we were talking about Asia earlier
there's a long history of retail
involvement in all markets um and so one
of the things that is getting attention
is the presence of retail investors but
from a quantitative point of view I
don't know I was looking at statistics
so there's conflicting measures
>> it's fairly modest and a lot of it seems
to be 401k and IRA
>> this whole thing about how you know the
volumes have taken off and they have
skyrocketed and now they account for 4%
[snorts] of tiny
>> exactly so everything is you know
consistent and correct but I I would now
you have to frame it appropriately yeah
and and know this is a cycle and we're
talking about now but basically and this
is you know me speaking as equities it's
a cyclical asset okay and and and so if
the cycle continues the way that has
been continuing. All of this is going to
grow but today we are not there yet.
>> Um
>> what about uh market concentration the
the magnificent 7 or whatever you want
to call the top 10 is that as big a is
that really a threat or is that you know
this happens from time to time when a
new technology attracts all this
attention and capital.
>> So I mean and I I I would put it
slightly differently. I would say the
market concentration in mega cap growth
and tech reflects the concentration of
S&P 500 earnings in the mega cap growth
and
>> what are they something like two
trillion in revenue 300 billion in
profits some some crazy number
>> they they're responsible right now for
about 40% of uh S&P 500 earnings
>> so why shouldn't they be 40% of the
market cap
>> exactly so they they're actually 30% of
earnings and 40% of the market cap I
apologize Why why are they so
overweight? Is it just future growth
expectations?
>> They're they're growing faster. So they
should definitely have higher multiples.
So so you know people frame the question
as focused on the mega cap growth in
tech. You can ask the equivalent
question actually. It's a bigger part
60% why isn't everybody else growing? I
got into this a little bit earlier. It's
a it's a very peculiar recovery where
the cyclical parts basically haven't
really kicked in in a big way. Uh but it
looks like they're kicking in. Um
>> what other sectors are kicking in? You
we I know you've written about
financials, consumer cyclicals,
materials and then we could talk about
EM and and small cap and value.
>> Sure.
>> What other sectors have been lagging
that you find particularly interesting?
>> So right now uh you know we have what I
call simple cyclical tilt to our
positioning uh because I talked about
discretionary investors sitting at
neutral. Why are they sitting at
neutral? because they're concerned about
the cycle. What are they going to buy if
they get off and start participating in
a bigger way? I would argue they will
buy the cyclicals because that's their
concern. They're unlikely to buy mega
cap growth in tech for well-known
reasons. All the reasons that you
basically mentioned. Uh so, you know, if
you phrase it from you can phrase the
question basically from who's actually
going to buy this stuff. I would argue
this group stands out and and and and
their concerns suggest that they would
buy the cyclicals if they started to
believe that the cycle is going to be
fine if you look at it from a
fundamental point of view. No, I mean
there aren't no signs of uh a huge
uptick on the signal side. But if you
wait for those signs, equity market will
price it far before. I mean one of the
lessons that I take away is you have to
think about the S&P 500 in a recession.
You have this break shaded period.
equity market falls 20% once the
recessions, you know, starts it it but
it robustly bottoms around the middle of
the recession before and and recovers
while you're still in this gray shaded
area. So, if you wait till payrolls turn
negative, you will have missed the
entire move and you will be back to, you
know, basically
catching that small. Exactly. So
equities turn up when there's a positive
probability that you're going to
basically have a recovery because you've
been in a recession for so long.
>> You you've identified a number of risks
earlier in the year and I'm curious if
if you still think they are significant
protectionist trade policies and
immigration policies are are those still
potential growth pressures or or
inflation pressures? I I I I I I think
on the tariffs basically uh they've
proved to be a modesty.
Exactly. Uh and and and so I don't worry
about that. I don't think it closes the
issue. I mean, they could still be
negatives that come out of that that
we're just not completely aware of yet.
But in that event, you know, a big part
of our thesis for this year has been
that uh I if things get bad, you know,
at the end of the day, any
administration cares about its approval
ratings. the approved rating is about
the economy. So they will relent and
especially if it's caused by one of the
policies. So that's been a big part of
our thesis for staying constructive uh
through the year. uh a a a I so you know
we talk about risks and I am deeply
aware of what most people mean when they
talk about risks but where we are
sitting a a a I I I would argue that it
is my duty to simply point out that
right now I'm much more concerned about
upside risks than downside risk
>> melt up a potential uh a a yes because
we don't we stop worrying about going
into a recession we stop worrying about
the politics and and and and and we stop
worrying about the tariffs because
companies are dealing with it
>> and suddenly there are blue skies out
there.
>> Exactly. So,
>> so, so last question before I get to my
favorite questions.
>> Okay.
>> What do you think investors are not
paying attention to or not talking about
that perhaps they should? Could be a
policy, could be an asset class. What do
you think is getting overlooked? uh the
the context that we are in what I was
talking about basically that uh a 3% GDP
growth with a 4% unemployment happens
only five or 6% of the time and and it
unleashes certain dynamics and and and
you know it started with during the
previous administration it has continued
in this administration so it's not
necessarily about the policies
>> so we've gotten a lot of noise and a lot
of headlines and a lot of news coverage.
Is that obscuring what is fundamentally
underneath everything a robust economy
and a healthy market?
>> I I believe so. Yeah.
>> Really really interesting stuff. Let
let's jump to our favorite questions
starting with the question that brought
me to you which is uh who are your
mentors who helped shape your career? So
many people, so many guests of this show
have mentioned you who helped shape your
career.
>> Well, so uh I started my career at the
research department at the IMF. uh and
most important mentor I would say was my
boss uh it's a gentleman called Michael
Douly u ex Federal Reserve you know at
some of the highest levels but was at
the IMF then he uh um I was just out of
graduate school uh taught me basically
how to uh think critically how to stand
on my own feet and most importantly how
to communicate things or the essence of
things in a very simple way.
>> He
>> That's great. Great answer. Let's talk
about books. What are some of your
favorites? What are you reading
currently?
>> Uh so I'm definitely a fiction reader.
It gives me a good break from where I
live and what I do. I'm currently
reading uh Isabelle Aend's books. I'm
currently on um A Long Petal by the Sea,
which is a book about Chile.
>> H really interesting. Uh what about
streaming? Uh outside of this show, what
are you watching, listening to? What
what keeps you entertained when you have
a little downtime?
>> Oh, given my background, I'm definitely
big Bollywood fan.
>> Oh, really? [laughter]
>> Yeah, I'm very partial to Indian movies.
And
>> give us a title that some of them are at
least
>> one that I really liked. It's on Prime
actually. Uh it's called Tand. T-V.
>> Uhhuh. What's that about? Uh it's about
politics uh and political career. Uh and
unfortunately they did not allow the
season two to be uh the authorities
didn't allow season two to
>> in India. They stopped it from going on.
>> Stopped. Yeah. Yeah.
>> Well, thank goodness nothing like that
would have happened.
>> But you still watch season one.
>> Yeah. All right. Um our final two
questions. What sort of advice would you
give a recent college grad interest in a
career in either economic policy
analysis, asset allocation, or just
investing?
>> Yeah, I think that, you know, uh a a
working on Wall Street or in finance, I
mean, there's a lot of different things
you can do. And I think uh for young
people starting out, the biggest
challenge is to figure out where, you
know, how do I match basically what I'm
most interested in and what where my
abilities are. And and my advice would
be to go with where your interests are,
the ability will come. Um I just went
through recruiting process and just
hired somebody from our grad program on
onto my team. Yeah.
>> Interesting. And our final question,
what do you know about the world of
economics and investing today would have
been helpful when you were starting out
back at the IMF uh in in the 1990s
>> to ignore everything except the economy?
Uh you all heard this expression, right,
about presidential elections. It's about
the economy, stupid
[clears throat]
accurate
>> and and the S&P 500 is about earnings.
uh period. Positioning, valuation, it
all kinds of fits in and and but but the
underlying trend is all basically coming
from earnings.
>> Totally totally fascinating. Thank you,
Binky, for being so generous with your
time. We have been speaking with Binky
Chada. He is the chief US equity and
global strategist and head of asset
allocation at Deutsche Bank Securities.
If you enjoy this conversation, well, be
sure and check out any of the 577 we've
done over the past uh 11 years. You can
find those at iTunes, Spotify,
Bloomberg, YouTube, or wherever you get
your favorite podcasts. Uh be sure and
check out my new book, How Not to
Invest: The Ideas, Numbers, and
Behaviors That Destroy Wealth and
[music] How to Avoid Them. How Not to
Invest at your favorite book seller. I
would be remiss if I did not thank the
crack team that helps put these
conversations together each week. Alexis
Noriega is my video producer. Anna Luke
is my producer. Sage Bowman is the head
of podcast at Bloomberg. Sean Russo is
my researcher. I'm Barry Rholz. You've
been listening to Masters in Business on
Bloomberg Radio.